---
title: "Efficient Encryption from Random Quasi-Cyclic Codes"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2018-02-07
excerpt: 'with C. Aguilar Melchor, O. Blazy, P. Gaborit, and Z. Zémor'
date: 2017-06-29
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Information Theory'
paperurl: 'https://deneuville.github.io/files/HQC_RQC_IEEE_IT.pdf'
citation: 'Aguilar Melchor, C., Blazy, O., Deneuville, J.-C., Gaborit, P., and Zémor, G. (2018). Efficient encryption from random quasi-cyclic codes. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 64(5), 3927-3943.
'
---

Abstract
======
We propose a framework for constructing
efficient code-based encryption schemes that do not hide
any structure in their public matrix. The framework is in
the spirit of the schemes first proposed by Alekhnovich
in 2003 and based on the difficulty of decoding random
linear codes from random errors of low weight. We depart
somewhat from Alekhnovich’s approach and propose an
encryption scheme based on the difficulty of decoding random quasi-cyclic codes. We propose two new cryptosystems
instantiated within our framework: the Hamming Quasi-
Cyclic cryptosystem (HQC), based on the Hamming metric, and the Rank Quasi-Cyclic cryptosystem (RQC), based
on the rank metric. We give a security proof, which reduces
the IND-CPA security of our systems to a decision version
of the well known problem of decoding random families of
quasi-cyclic codes for the Hamming and rank metrics (the
respective QCSD and RQCSD problems). We also provide
an analysis of the decryption failure probability of our
scheme in the Hamming metric case: for the rank metric
there is no decryption failure. Our schemes benefit from
a very fast decryption algorithm together with small key
sizes of only a few thousand bits. The cryptosystems are
very efficient for low encryption rates and are very well
suited to key exchange and authentication. Asymptotically,
for λ the security parameter, the public key sizes are
respectively in $O(λ^2)$ for HQC and in $O(λ^{4/3})$ for RQC.
Practical parameter compares well to systems based on
ring-LPN or the recent MDPC system.

[Download paper here](https://deneuville.github.io/files/HQC_RQC_IEEE_IT.pdf)

Bibtex
======
<pre>
@article{IEEEIT:ABDGZ18,
  title={Efficient encryption from random quasi-cyclic codes},
  author={Aguilar-Melchor, Carlos and Blazy, Olivier and Deneuville, {Jean-Christophe} and Gaborit, Philippe and Z{\'e}mor, Gilles},
  journal={IEEE Transactions on Information Theory},
  volume={64},
  number={5},
  pages={3927--3943},
  year={2018},
  publisher={IEEE}
}
</pre>

