---
title: "Delegating Elliptic-Curve Operations with Homomorphic Encryption"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2018-04-09
excerpt: 'with C. Aguilar Melchor, P. Gaborit, T. Lepoint and T. Ricosset'
date: 2018-04-09
venue: 'IEEE Conference on Communications and Network Security 2018'
paperurl: 'https://deneuville.github.io/files/SPC2018.pdf'
citation: 'Aguilar-Melchor, C., Deneuville, J.-C., Gaborit, P., Lepoint, T., & Ricosset, T. (2018, May). Delegating Elliptic-Curve Operations with Homomorphic Encryption. In 2018 IEEE Conference on Communications and Network Security (CNS) (pp. 1-9). IEEE.'
---

Abstract
======
The landscape of Fully Homomorphic Encryption
(FHE) has known great changes these past six years. As computational costs drop, libraries are developed and new applications
become possible. Prototypes demonstrating private health diagnosis, signal processing, genome statistics and database queries
spur hope on the practical deployment of FHE in the near future.
However, in most of these applications, increasing the privacy,
security or enabling new functionalities comes in pair with some
significant computation and/or communication burden.

In this work, we depart from the latter paradigm and
demonstrate that FHE might be useful to increase the practical
performance of elliptic-curve cryptography. More precisely, we
show how to reduce the computational burden of computing
elliptic-curve points from a generator through delegation. We
show that using homomorphic encryption it is possible to reduce
in practice computational costs even with respect to traditional,
not based on homomorphic-encryption, delegation protocols. We
demonstrate the feasibility of our protocols with proof-of-concept
implementations using HElib (adapted to handle multiprecision
plaintext space moduli).

[Download paper here](https://deneuville.github.io/files/SPC2018.pdf)

Bibtex
======
<pre>
@inproceedings{SPC:ADGLR18,
  title={Delegating Elliptic-Curve Operations with Homomorphic Encryption},
  author={Aguilar-Melchor, Carlos and Deneuville, {Jean-Christophe} and Gaborit, Philippe and Lepoint, Tancrede and Ricosset, Thomas},
  booktitle={2018 IEEE Conference on Communications and Network Security (CNS)},
  pages={1--9},
  year={2018},
  organization={IEEE}
}
</pre>

